# Lecture 13 Examples

## Enumerated Types

`Day.java` is a simple example of an **enum** to represent days of the week.
`DayTest.java` demonstrates the methods that can be called on enums.

`EnumToString.java` and `StringToEnum.java` show how to produce a string
representation of an enum and how to generate an enum value from a string.
If you uncomment the definition of `toString()` in the `Day` enum, you
will be able to change the output generated by `EnumToString`.

`Rank.java` contains a slightly more complex example of an enum, representing
the rank of a playing card.  This enum definition associates data with each
enum value and provides additional methods that can be invoked on an enum
value.  `RankTest.java` contains some code to test the `Rank` enum.

## Defining Enums Inside Classes

`Card.java` defines a class representing a playing card.  The rank and suit
of the card are represented using enums, but they are defined *within the
class itself*.  `RankTest2.java` is a modified version of `RankTest`,
showing how the `Rank` enum within `Card` is accessed.  `SuitTest.java`
is a similar program showing how the `Suit` enum is accessed.

## Inner Classes & Anonymous Inner Classes

`Button1.java` contains an example of how an **inner class** can be used to
specify the code that handles button clicks in a small JavaFX application.
`Button2.java` modifies this by making the event handling class an
**anonymous inner class**.

If using the default Java 8 on SoC Linux machines, you should be able to
compile and run these three programs using the `javac` and `java` commands.
If you are trying this out on your own machine, use Gradle instead:

    cd jfx
    ./gradlew :button1:run
    ./gradlew :button2:run

**Warning**: JavaFX suffers from compatibility problems on Apple silicon,
so unfortunately you probably won't be able to run these if you have a
relatively new Macbook.

## Lambda Expressions

`Button3.java` demonstrates how **lambda expressions** provide a more modern
alternative to anonymous inner classes.  Compare this with the `Button1`
and `Button2` examples.

`PersonSort.java` demonstrates how you can sort instances of a class using
Java's standard `Collections.sort()` method in combination with a lambda
expression that specifies a **comparator** for `Person` objects.
